# TraClus Algorithm

This is an implementation of TraClus (TRAjectory CLUStering) [1] algorithm in Java. A GUI was added for the convenience.

The original paper of this algorithm can be found at http://hanj.cs.illinois.edu/pdf/sigmod07_jglee.pdf 
The authors of the paper implemented the algorithm in C++, so it could be helpful to develop one in Java for 
other users to use. I have compared the output with the one generated by the C++ implementation, so far I have not found
any bugs. It will be great if any one reports any bugs about this implementation.

I am currently involved in a maritime traffic project which requires me to implement various clustering algorithms. So that
is the very first motivation about why I do this implementation. I also implemented another clustering algorithm called DBSCANSD
which was proposed during my thesis study and you can find its code from the follwoing link: 
https://github.com/luborliu/DBSCANSD




# How to run the code?

After downloading it to local, 

1. cd to the folder of src/boliu/

2. compile all the .java files using:

    javac *.java

3. cd to the folder of src/

4. execute the program using the following either command:

    1) java boliu.Main inputfile outputfile 
    
        --e.g. java boliu.Main deer_1995.tra testOut.txt
        
        In this way, the program will help you to decide the parameters for eps and minLns;

    2) java boliu.Main inputfile outputfile eps minLns 
    
        --e.g. java boliu.Main deer_1995.tra testOut.txt 29 8
        
        In this way, you tell the program the parameters for eps and minLns, which are 29 and 8 separately.

5. waiting for the result :) 
6. Star it if it helps  \*-\*


# Input file format


The data format is as follows:

    1st line: Number of dimensions (2 for example)

    2nd line: Number of trajectories (32 for example)

    3rd line: Trajectory Index (starting from 0, so 0 for this line), Number of trajectory points in this trajectory (n for example), X1, Y1, X2, Y2, …., Xn, Yn

    4th line: Trajectory Index (starting from 0, so 1 for this line), Number of trajectory points in this trajectory (m for example), X1, Y1, X2, Y2, …., Xm, Ym
    .
    .
    .
    34th line:Trajectory Index (starting from 0, so 31 for this line), Number of trajectory points in this trajectory (j for example), X1, Y1, X2, Y2, …., Xj, Yj



# Reference


[1] Lee, Jae-Gil, Jiawei Han, and Kyu-Young Whang. "Trajectory clustering: a partition-and-group framework."
Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data. ACM, 2007.


# Realse Note

02/23/2017   Create License file under MIT license as requested.

03/10/2016   Fix a bug (reported by @luca-zamboni) that will throw InputMismatchException while the code is downloaded in some      countries.

02/02/2016   Fix a bug (reported by Dieter) of estimation function (cannot give right output according to different input files). 

11/25/2015   Fix a bug (reported by @ankushdas) that makes the program not work for multi-dimensional (>2) data set.







